OSDOCS-3860: add dns cache tuning (#51765)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-dns-cache-tuning.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * networking/dns-operator.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-dns-cache-tuning_{context}"]
= Tuning the CoreDNS cache

> You can configure the maximum duration of both successful (positive) or unsuccessful (negative) caching done by CoreDNS. Tuning the duration of caching of DNS query responses can reduce the load for any upstream DNS resolvers.

Reviewer: We generally avoid parenthesis per IBM style guide.

Author: @jboxman-rh what do you think about the following as a replacement for the parentheses?

> You can configure the maximum duration of both successful or unsuccessful caching, otherwise known as positive or negative caching respectively, done by CoreDNS.

I'm not too sure it flows any better than before, but I'm struggling a bit to come up with a way to mention the alternative phrasing without the parentheses

.Procedure

. Edit the DNS Operator object named `default` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit dns.operator.openshift.io/default
----

. Modify the time-to-live (TTL) caching values:
+
.Configuring DNS caching
[source,yaml]
----

> spec:

Reviewer: @jldohmann, do we know what spec this is? From the edit command, it's the  object named `default` of the DNS API in the operator.openshift.io group, probably v1, but I'd have to check.

I think this should be included in the YAML, per our guidelines for k8s objects, for clarity.

Author: @jboxman-rh do you mean including the `apiVersion` field in the YAML file? I can add that for sure

  cache:
    successTTL: 1h <1>
    denialTTL: 0.5h10m <2>
----
+

> <1> The string value `1h` is converted to its respective number of seconds by CoreDNS. If this field is left empty, the value is assumed to be `0s` and the cluster will use the internal default value of `900s` as a fallback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The string value `1h` is converted to its respective number of seconds by CoreDNS. If this field is omitted, the value is assumed to be `0s` and the cluster uses the internal default value of `900s` as a fallback.
```

> <1> The string value `1h` is converted to its respective number of seconds by CoreDNS. If this field is left empty, the value is assumed to be `0s` and the cluster will use the internal default value of `900s` as a fallback.

Reviewer: Does this also support `1m`, `1d`, ect? If so should we mention that the specific string is some combination of days, hours, minutes, and seconds? I assume this is using the standard Go lang tokens for these?

Reviewer 2: It is using the standard Go time units with the max time unit being `h` and it supports mixed units so you could do `1h30m10s` or `0.5h`.

Reviewer 2: Technically, you can use the smaller time units like `ms` but we don't want to encourage users to do that since the functional lowest value is `1s` and that's unlikely to be used except in maybe a troubleshooting scenario.

Author: Thanks Chad! I think since it uses standard Go time units, if we expect users to be familiar with this, I will leave it as is. The other CoreDNS docs don't mention anything about Go, they just link to the relevant CoreDNS doc.

> <2> The string value can be a combination of units such as `0.5h10m` and is converted to its respective number of seconds by CoreDNS. If this field is left empty, the value is assumed to be `0s` and the cluster will use the internal default value of `30s` as a fallback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> The string value can be a combination of units such as `0.5h10m` and is converted to its respective number of seconds by CoreDNS. If this field is omitted, the value is assumed to be `0s` and the cluster uses the internal default value of `30s` as a fallback.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * networking/dns-operator.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-dns-cache-tuning_{context}"]
= Tuning the CoreDNS cache

> You can configure the maximum duration of both sucessful (positive) or unsuccessful (negative) caching done by CoreDNS. Tuning the duration of caching of DNS query responses can reduce the load for any upstream DNS resolvers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure the maximum duration of both successful (positive) or unsuccessful (negative) caching done by CoreDNS. Tuning the duration of caching of DNS query responses can reduce the load for any upstream DNS resolvers.
```

.Procedure

. Edit the DNS Operator object named `default` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit dns.operator.openshift.io/default
----

. Modify the time-to-live (TTL) caching values:
+
.Configuring DNS caching
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  cache:
    successTTL: 1h <1>
    denialTTL: 0.5h10m <2>
----
+

> <1> The string value `1h` is converted to its respective number of seconds by CoreDNS. If this field is left empty, the value is assumed to be `0s` and the cluster will use the internal default value of `900s` as a fallback.

Reviewer 2: For the internal default values, we'll have to keep an eye on these in the future because they're subject to change so the docs will need to be updated accordingly if/when that happens.

<2> The string value can be a combination of units such as `0.5h10m` and is converted to its respective number of seconds by CoreDNS. If this field is left empty, the value is assumed to be `0s` and the cluster will use the internal default value of `30s` as a fallback.
+
[WARNING]
====

> Setting TTL fields to low values could lead to an increased load on any upstream resolvers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting TTL fields to low values could lead to an increased load on the cluster and/or any upstream resolvers.
```

====

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

> * For more information on DNS cache tuning, see the link:https://coredns.io/plugins/cache/[CoreDNS cache documentation].

Reviewer 2: This feature only allows for a very small subset of the caching parameters available in CoreDNS so I'm a little wary about adding this here since we don't support most of what's in that documentation. That said, it's fine to leave in if it's necessary but I'd prefer it be taken out. I will defer to your judgement @jldohmann :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: No problem, I can remove it 👍
